We can visually see on the map that the eastern half of the U.S. has a higher occurrence of mass shootings than the western half.
Shootings seem to be evenly spread out in the East Coast. 

Most mass shootings involve use of a handgun (41.8% of mass shootings).
Mass shootings involving the use of multiple weapons had the highest average number of victims (14.47) than any other type of mass shooting.
    Mass shootings involving a handgun or rifle had around the same average number of victims (7).
The use of a handgun caused a higher average percent of fatalities from the amount of total victims than any other gun type (on average, 54.4% of handgun victims had a fatal incident).
    Surprisingly and contrary to our prediction, it seems that handguns can be more fatal than rifles or shotguns.

California had the highest number of mass shootings(35), followed by Florida(28) then Texas(23).
    One of the reasons could be because California and Texas are amongst the largest states in the U.S.
    Future analysis could examine the relationship between number of mass shootings and state size and number of mass shootings and population size per state.

Also contrary to our belief, most mass shootings occur in places of residency.

There was no visible correlation between the proximity of the shooting site to the nearest police department, such that the amount of victims increased as the distance increased.
    A visible trend is that many of the mass shootings occurred within a 3 mile distance of the nearest police department.
    IMPORTANT LIMITATION: We did not confirm whether the police department was already established at the time of the shooting. 
    The amount of victims within the 3 mile distance to the police department ranged from 3 to 102.
    ANOVA test: The amount of victims did not differ significantly in any of the groups based on proximity to the nearest police department.

There was no visible correlation between the amount of weapons used and the total number of victims, such that more weapons increased the number of victims.
    ANOVA test: There were significantly more victims when multiple weapons were used during mass shootings than when only one weapon was used.




    



